some live streaming right now and I've
got a question from a guy named Nicholas
and it's a question about effective
activism on the most human one-to-one
scale
he has been organizing a vegan Club a
vegan Association on his campus and he
says in the past they have done
leafleting and tabling both of which
have been relatively hollow and I seen
this is hollow experience and he says it
also has little outcome little effect
with even sorry screwing here even the
vegans not becoming friendly so ie it's
not really that effective in terms of
outreach to meat-eaters and it's not
even that effective as no reach to other
vegans so look tabeling tbling as a form
of public outrage I've thought about
this a lot in the past few days and
weeks because I've had some comments
with a longtime advocate for veganism
called Roger Yates I'll give a shout out
to Roger Yates I'll give a link to his
YouTube channel Roger Yates was formerly
involved with violent activism with the
Animal Liberation Front and he formerly
did time in prison he got a four year
jail sentence because of his involvement
with the a LF a violent group and today
so far as I can see the form of activism
he endorses is tabeling why do we use
this term tabling so Roger Yates he sets
out a table normally under a rented tent
or booth
he has buttons you know little buttons
you can wear on your on your lapel
buttons and leaflets and books
I think t-shirts that kind of
information they stand there and they
talk to whoever is going to talk to them
so that's a standard form of public
outreach public education that he
engages him now so this is interesting
why do I raise this many people who get
frustrated and exasperated with other
forms of outreach turn to tabling turn
to this form of public education and see
it very positively compared to the other
forms of activism they were involved
with before so I do think for example
through our gates tabeling is a lot more
effective than spending four years in
prison it
I do think overall he probably feels his
time is better spent now than it was in
some other forms of activism he was
involved with in the past he's talked
about that a little bit Nassif channel
I'm giving you the link cuz I think he's
gonna talk about it more in the future
on his YouTube channel so I got some
really interesting perspective to get
now a couple of days ago I was talking
via Skype like communication of talking
over the internet video chat what do you
want to say with an exasperated and
exhausted vegan activism who's been
involved with a lot of street protests
with with direct action everywhere and
also with the vigil groups
so by vigil groups we mean groups like
pig save chicken save etc groups that
hold vigils in front of slaughterhouses
and with both of those forms of activism
people send attend to start out feeling
they're really effective and they're
really emotionally moving you know you
stand there you watch these animals go
in and get slaughtered it's a big deal
maybe you cry the first couple of times
but with just a little bit of repetition
whether it's the vigil format or at
screaming and strangers on the street
and street protests and holding up signs
pretty rapidly fatigue sets in and I
think for him also coming out of that
background angry street protests
disruption style disruptive style street
protest and the vigil format I think for
him he comes to the conclusion that
tabeling this very low-key form of
standing there and talking about you is
a more positive form of outreach and
activism right now I'm not in case you
know hashtag spoilers in case the point
of this video is for me to really
endorse tabling as the greatest form of
activism it's not I totally sympathize
with Nicolas who's writing me saying
that he's involved in campus activism
and he feels this is Hollow and that it
doesn't even get a positive response or
vegans 8-1 there's a discussed as a
greater length in other videos in the
past I think you have to recognize the
extent to which a function of that kind
is first and foremost a rally for the
vegans themselves it's really almost
like a party for the because
so if you don't have a group of vegans
who enjoy getting together and spending
time with one another through tabling or
through outreach that is already a very
strong reason not to engage in that form
of activism on the other hand if you did
like let's say you had a group of
middle-aged people like me and they
really appreciate it once a month
getting together maybe everybody bakes a
cake and you get together and do tabling
but really for us as a bunch of
middle-aged people maybe it's a joy that
once a month we get this chance to see
one another each other's vegan chocolate
cake and say oh hey how's it going this
is our one chance when maybe we get away
from maybe we call a babysitter get away
from taking care of our kids and we get
to see other vegans so even if the
outreach is very ineffective we talked
to five meat-eaters who are willing to
talk to us we really appreciate having
those couple of hours under a tent or at
a booth standing behind that table that
for us it's something very positive that
is a reason positively why you should do
this or negatively why you should not do
this that's a criterion you should take
seriously is the social function of the
form of activism for the vegan
participants themselves because
primarily what you're doing is really
like let's say a rally and only
secondary of secondarily is it a form of
outreach because this is not very
effective evaluated just as outraged
now with that Emmett said again spoilers
the point of this video is not to tell
you that tabeling is the greatest form
of outrage we all need to look at really
critically what type of activism we can
really accomplish in our lives but if
you want to know the most effective form
of vegan activism outreach in 2017 it's
these four letters P C R M PCRM are
massively effective in terms of public
education in terms of public outreach
PCRM are massively effective in terms of
government lobbying they're massively
effective in terms of our impact on
vegans and meteors and the general
public and I'm not saying this about
their particular content about their
particular message I'm saying this about
their methods right I'm saying this
about PCRM as a mode of activism can you
do what PCRM does probably not
but if we're keeping it all the way real
but why not so this guy ready to be
Nicolas he's a university student if you
make that your goal is to have an
organization like PCRM maybe specialize
in a totally different subject maybe it
specialized in dolphin's maybe it
specialized in owls or nature
conservation or you know the hot dog
industry that'd be great you could have
a whole organization just dealing with
the hot dog industry or just dealing
with maybe you're advocating for trying
to get vegan options on University
campuses in prisons yet City Hall and
other institutional content there are so
many issues you can specialize in or you
look at the level of organization and
professionalism of PCRM and you try to
emulate that okay so starting now when
you're in university what do you think
you can accomplish in the next five
years what do you think you can
accomplish in next 10 years I think the
answer is a lot and moreover you can
accomplish a lot if you're aiming at
using those formal lobbying methods
formal organizational methods of PCRM
over five years in two years you can
accomplish a lot compared to going to
the same street protests again and again
for five years going to the same vigil
again and again for five you're standing
in front of the same slaughterhouse
holding a can't a candle and weeping
again again fires you can accomplish a
lot compared to tabeling again and again
for five years and then again something
I've said so many times is you do have
to look at what forms of activism can
really fit in your own life I live on
the border between you nan and Myanmar
in Southeast Asia I live on the Chinese
side of that border there is zero
political activism I can engage in so
what I did is I wrote a children's story
book I wrote it in both English and
Chinese other people translated it into
Japanese Russia and German and other
languages and I'm talking to an
illustrator trying to illustrate and
publish that children's book the
children's book is by the way you know
vegan propaganda I'll give you the link
to that below this video I'll also give
you the link to my patreon below this
video because for me you too
and patreon is a form of vegan activism
and vegan outreach and if you think it's
ineffective well compared to what sure
it's not super effective
but compared to standing on the street
and screaming at strangers compared to
some of these alternatives it may be
very effective indeed ok this is not my
first discussion of these issues it is
not my last discussion of these issues
these are real brass tacks what we can
and can't do in terms of vegan activism
now I appreciate getting the question
from Nicolas and I'm gonna be happy to
discuss these things again and again on
YouTube over the next five years as my
own life changes as my own options
change and I don't know if I'm ever
going to get closer to being in the
position that PCRM is in or if I'm gonna
get in a position where publishing
children's storybooks is more and more
something positive I can do for the
movement or if I'm gonna remain trapped
in a position where my obligations to my
family to my job to my education in my
career really limit me to not being able
to do much more than reach out to people
like you now over YouTube over you now
through patreon join my patreon for one
dollar a month
join the discussion and I'm happy to
hear from you guys about what you can
and can't do about your struggles and
your own aspirations short term and long
term for vegan activism for the future
of the movement hit me on